Volleyroos prepare for Men’s Volleyball Nations League under new coach Dave Preston
The Men’s Volleyroos squad announced today by Volleyball Australia is an eclectic mix of youth and experience, with the team ready to take on the 2022 Men’s Volleyball Nations League (VNL) campaign under the guidance of new head coach Dave Preston.

Officially appointed just a few weeks ago, Preston is looking forward to his first international tournament at the helm of the Volleyroos and is excited by the prospect of bringing the Australian men’s national team to the position they aspire to.

“I’ve been welcomed with open arms and I am honoured and humbled to be a part of this program,” Preston said. “Volleyball Australia is a world-class organisation and the culture, the atmosphere and the camaraderie have been amazing.”

With the first match of the VNL preliminary round just a week away, the recent training camp at the Australian Institute of Sport (AIS) in Canberra gave Preston the first opportunity to meet the team and provided athletes with plenty of chances to do some learning while competing for a spot on the roster. 

The Volleyroos will begin their 2022 VNL campaign against Brazil on June 9, the first of 12 matches played over the following month which also include top-level clashes against reigning Olympic Champions France and 2021 Asian Men’s Champions Iran.

“We knew it was going to be a pretty short runway towards the first match against Brazil,” Preston said, acknowledging that facing the defending VNL champions on their home soil won’t make for an easy debut.

“But when you’re playing the best teams in the world, the margins are always pretty tight. World-class teams will be world-class and playing Brazil in Brasilia will be a really good standard for us to set, as we try to be in that mix,” Preston said.





Volleyball Australia is pleased to confirm the women’s indoor volleyball team for the Asian Volleyball Confederation (AVC) U18 Women’s Volleyball Championships.

Twelve athletes have been selected as part of the team who are competing in Nakhon Pathom, Thailand, from June 6-13.

Volleyball Australia National Pathways Manager Paul Smith said: “I’d like to congratulate all 12 junior athletes on their selection for the AVC U18 Women’s Volleyball Championships.

“This group have had limited access to domestic and international training and playing opportunities over the past two years, so this tour will be a really valuable learning experience for them,” he said.

Western Australia’s Caitlin Whincup has been named as part of the 12-strong team, an honour which is not taken lightly.

“I am very proud to represent Australia – we’ve lost some international opportunities due to COVID, so I’m proud and very glad I worked hard to now be able to experience it,” Whincup said.

“We’ve had a zoom introduction meeting but for many of us we’ll be meeting in Thailand.

“In saying that, we’ve got a very fun-loving group and we’re all looking forward to the opportunity,” she said.

Dual Olympian and former Volleyroos captain David Beard said he is looking forward to coaching his first international tournament since joining the Australian Volleyball Academy coaching team in late 2021.

“Representing your country as a player or coach is a huge privilege and honour,” Beard said.

“I have been lucky enough to have had many appearances as a player for Australia, and am now really looking forward to my first time as a coach. To say that I’m a little excited is a real understatement!

“With a great group of coaches and girls heading to Thailand, I know that we will do our absolute best to play good volleyball, to have a lot of fun, and to make everyone proud back home.”

Ella Schabort was initially selected as captain of the team, but after sustaining a concussion at the recent senior training camp, which she is currently being treated for, she won’t be able to travel with the team to Thailand.

The championship serves as the Asian qualification tournament for the 2023 FIVB Volleyball Girls’ U19 World Championship, with 11 teams in total vying for top honours and four berths up for grabs for the biennial world meet as AVC representatives.

Australia will play in Pool A against  hosts Thailand, Korea, Iran, and Uzbekistan in Pool A, with Japan, China, Chinese Taipei, Kazakhstan, India and Philippines in Pool B.









Volleyball fans and beach lovers alike are in for a treat as this year’s VolleyFest takes place in Manly, NSW, on the doorstep of the beautiful Northern Beaches campus of International College of Management, Sydney (ICMS).

Olympic gold medallist Kerri Pottharst OAM will be just one of the stars in action on the beach, as well as Volleyroos players such as Chris McHugh and Damien Schuman. It will be aces, serves and digs from 18 – 26 November during what is billed as the premier event on the Australian Beach Volleyball Calendar.

ICMS is a major sponsor of Volleyball Australia, we also sponsor with the Australian Open of Surfing, Manly Marlin Rugby and others. Sponsoring such events is a way of keeping pace with the sports industry in which many ICMS students end up working, as the college offers an in depth Bachelor of Sports Management degree.

ICMS students are encouraged to get down to the beach and watch the action unfold with three major categories of volleyball making up VolleyFest.